%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
\section{Visuals}
\label{sec:visuals}
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

Pangea is composed of 3 primary visual components. Each component is
tailored to understading systems at different granulairities. The
first component is the time curve. The time curve plots a point for
each snapshot collected from a systems logs. The distance between each
point is the difference in their state as caclculated in
Section~\ref{differentiation-algorithm}. The points are connected by a
curve which links them temporally, creating an approximate FSM from
the exection. Second likely data invariants, mined from the logs, are
plotted graphically. Points in the graph are logged variables colleted
from all nodes present at runtime. Edges connecting the points are
invariants on their values. Finally Pangaea rendereds a ShiViz style
communication graph. The vertical lines of the graph correspond to
individual nodes. Edges between the vertical lines are messages sent
between the nodes. Together these visuals provide a comprehensive view
of the systems runtime behaviour.

To generate examples of our visualizations we insturmented and
exeucted a three node cluster of etcd~\cite{etcdraft}. Etcd is a
popular, and industrial scale raft implemntation. Raft is a fault
tolerant concuss algorithm. Etcd raft implements a key value store
which allows users to issue put and get requets. For the sake of
example our visualization were taken from a run in which a client
issued 50 put requests, followed by 50 get requests.

\subsection{Time Curve}


Each point in the time curve correlates to a single snapshot.  Therein
each point is representative of the system as a whole.  A result of
calculating the differental of each snapshot, is that system states
which are similar to one another are clustered togeher, while
differing states are further apart.  This clustering allows users to
quickly associate similar states of their system. Each point is also
color coded based on their temporal ordering. The first snapshot is
colored bright red, and the final snapshot is dark brown. All
intermediate points are colored as an intermediate hue. By coloring
each of the points users can associate custered state with a time in
the systems execution. The starting and end snapshots are significant
because they orient the users reasoning about their system. Starting
and end points are circled in blue to make them identifiable.

All points in the graph are connected by a single curve. The curve
begins at the starting point, ends at the end point, and connects all
points sequentially as they occur in logical time. The curve is color
coded identically with the points. It begins as bright red, and
transitions to dark brown. Where the cuver intersects with a point
their colors match. The purpose of color coding the time curve is to
allow users to quickly associate a temporal relasionship on
transitions between states. A legend which describes these encodings
is positioned in the top right of the graph.

Users interact with the curve by selecting an individual snapshot.
When selected concrete information about the snapshot is provided to
the user. First, the corresponding cut of the network from on which
the snapshot was taken is highlighted on the process communication
graph (see Section~\ref{communication-graph}). Second the user is
presented with a table of variables and their values from the
snapshot. The table contains information about the node a variable was
resident on, the name of the variable, the variables type, and its
value. Additionally a table containing the vector clocks on each node
is rendered to help users identify the precise moment the snapshot was
taken. Concrete values alow users to reason precicely about the state
of the system. Users can invstigate which variable assignment
correspond to clusters in the curve. In the cases of divergent or
unexpected clustering users can associate concrete state with the
behaviour of their system.

In Figure~\ref{fig:put-get-curve} the bright red cluster, and brown
cluster correspond to snapshots in which put, and get requests were
being serviced respectivly. A single connection in the curve links the
red cluster to the brown cluster and denots the transition from one
distinct functionality to the next. A small cluster containing the
inital snapshot is differentiated from the two main clusters. This
small cluster corresponds to a leader election triggered at the
beginning of the clusters execution.

\begin{figure}[h]
    \includegraphics[width=\linewidth]{fig/put-get-curve}%
    \caption{Time curve generated from an etcd raft cluster processing 50 put requets, followed by 50 get requests.\label{fig:put-get-curve}}%
\end{figure}
    


\subsection{Invarinat Graph}
\label{invariant-graph}

The invariant graph is composed of points, corresponding to variables,
and edges, which are invariant relationships between the variables.
The invariants Pangaea renders are calculated by Dinv~\cite{dinv}.
Dinv reports invariants in the same format as Daikon~\cite{Ernst01}.
Figure~\ref{fig:dinv-output} is Dinv's invariant output from analyzing
etcd raft. These invariants can be difficult to comprehend for
developers unfamilar with the format. Futher the textual represetation
obfistaces the transitive properties of the invariants, requireing the
user to reason about them.

Pangea graphs the systems invariants to present them intuitivly, in a
way which communicates the transitive nature of the invariants. We
implemented four invariant encodings for relationships which hold over
integers, and a subset of which hold over more general types.
Specifically a thin black line denotes equality, while a dashed black
line denotes inequality. Both of these relationships are vaild on
arbetrary data so they are graphed for all types, such as strings,
booleans, and integers. Light blue triangular edges correspond to the
\emph{less than} relationship. Two corners of the triagle are attached
to the greater variable, while a single is attached to the lesser.
Similarly a light blue triange with a black border represents the
\emph{greater than or equal too} relation. Users can select a
variable, and all tansitive relations are highligted in red. When a
variable is highlighted, and variables which do not have a transitive
relationship have their names removed from the graph, to increase
ledgeability.

Figure~\ref{fig:invariant-graph} is an invariant graph generated from
Dinv's invariant output in Figure~\ref{fig:dinv-output}.
Figure~\ref{fig:invariant-graph}A is the static represetnation of the
graph.  All variabile names, and relationships are visable to the
user. Figure~\ref{fig:invariant-graph}B is the result of a user clicking
on the \emph{C-state} point.

\begin{figure}[h]
    \includegraphics[width=0.5\linewidth]{fig/dinv-output}%
    \caption{Dinv's invariant output from analyzing etcd.\label{fig:dinv-output}}%
\end{figure}

\begin{figure}[h]
    \includegraphics[width=\linewidth]{fig/invariant-graph}%
    \caption{Pangaea's invariant graph generated from Dinv's invaraints in Figure~\ref{fig:dinv-output}.A) is a static rendering of the invariants. B) User selected invariants \label{fig:invariant-graph}}%
\end{figure}

\subsection{Communication Graph}
\label{communication-graph}
